# Pointers

C++ makes heavy use of pointers. In general, C++ pointers point to objects which Rice wraps as Ruby objects.

However, this is not always the case. As described in the [type mapping](overloaded_methods.md#type-mapping) section, pointers may also point to:

* Fundamental types (example, `int*`)
* Array of objects (example, `int[]` or `MyClass[]`)
* Array of pointers (example `int**` or `MyClass**`)

In these case, Rice uses `Pointer<T>` and [Buffer\<T\>](buffers.md) Ruby classes to enable Ruby code to manipulate them. In some cases these classes can be auto generated by Rice and in others you must tell Rice to generate them. These cases are explained below.

The `Pointer<T>` classes have very little functionality - they simply wrap C++ pointers. This allows them to be passed to C++ APIs that take pointers. They also define a single method, `buffer`, which returns the appropriate Ruby `Buffer<T>` class.

`Buffer<T>` classes enable Ruby to manipulate the memory pointed to by a pointer. They can also create new C++ pointers from Ruby objects.

## Fundamental Types

It is common for C and C++ APIs to take pointers to blocks of memory consisting of fundamental types such as unsigned chars. For example, the OpenCV library includes an API to create a `Mat` instance like this:

```cpp
Matrix(int rows, int columns, void uint8_t* data)
```

`data` is a pointer to a buffer consisting of uint_8 values.

Rice automatically detects these types of pointers and [generates](../types/naming.md) Pointer and Buffer Ruby classes. For example, for a pointer to an int, `int*`, Rice will create the Ruby classes  `Rice::Pointer≺int≻` and `Rice::Buffer≺int≻`.

## Array of Objects

C++ APIs can also take a pointer to an array of objects. For example:

```cpp
Matrix Matrix::operator()(const Range* ranges) const
```

This code creates a view onto an existing Matrix based on an array of `Range` objects. The length of the array is equal to the Matrix's number of dimensions.

Rice cannot distinguish this case from a normal pointer, thus you must tell it that ranges is a pointer to an array of objects. This is done using the `ArgBuffer` class:

```cpp
Data_Type<Matrix> rb_cMatrix =
  .define_method("call", &Matrix::operator(), ArgBuffer("ranges"));
```

If a C++ method or function returns a buffer then you must tell Rice that by using the `ReturnBuffer` class:

```cpp
Range* Matrix::ranges(const int row)

Data_Type<Matrix> rb_cMatrix =
  .define_method("call", &Matrix::operator(), ReturnBuffer());
```

## Array of Pointers

The above example also works with an array of pointers. In that case:

```cpp
Matrix Matrix::operator()(const Range** ranges) const
```

Notice the `ranges` parameter is now a `**` - or an array of pointers.

Rice automatically detects these types of pointers and [generates](../types/naming.md) Pointer and Buffer Ruby classes. For example, for a pointer to an int, `int**`, Rice will create the Ruby classes  `Rice::Pointer≺int∗≻` and `Rice::Buffer≺int∗≻`.
