# Overview

Rice enable native C++ code and Ruby code to work together. This requires translating types between the two languages.

## C++ Types

C++ defines [fundamental](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/types.html) and [compound](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/type.html) types. Fundamental types consist of void, integers, float, double, etc. Compound types are everything else such as enums, arrays, classes, pointers, references, etc.

## Type Mapping

Objects can either be converted or wrapped. Converted objects are copied between the two languages. For example, a C++ integer is copied to a Ruby Integer resulting in two disconnected objects. If you update the value of the Ruby integer the change is *not* reflected in the C++ integer. For more information refer to the [Type Conversion](conversion.md) section.

Wrapped objects are C++ objects that are wrapped by Ruby objects, or alternatively, Ruby objects wrapped by C++ objects. Thus the two objects are connected. For example, if a C++ object is wrapped by a Ruby object then any modifications to the Ruby object will be reflected in the C++ object. For more information refer to the [Type Wrapping](wrapping.md) section.

The table below shows how fundamental and compound C++ types are mapped to Ruby types based on whether they are passed by value, reference or pointer.

| C++ Type | Fundamental | Compound |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| Value (T) | Converted | Wrapped |
| Reference (T&) | Converted | Wrapped |
| Pointer (T*) | Pointer&lt;T&gt; | Wrapped |
| Array (T[]) | Pointer&lt;T&gt; | Pointer&lt;T&gt; |
| Pointer (T**) | Pointer&lt;T*&gt; | Pointer&lt;T*&gt; |

The [Pointer](../bindings/pointers.md) classes are automatically generated by Rice to wrap C++ arrays and pointers to fundamental types. Use [Buffers](../bindings/buffers.md) to manipulate the pointer's memory.
